ABSTRACT-
With the rise of artificial intelligence and the advancements in technology, the need for proper traffic sign recognition is important for aiding driver awareness of speed limits and other road signs. With autonomous, self-driving cars, it is very vital for the program to recognize different traffic signals to avoid any catastrophic accidents. The goal of our project is to analyze various traffic signs/signals and categorize them for autonomous vehicles to recognize signs effectively in order to increase road safety. Traffic sign recognition (TSR) can improve road safety by providing real-time information to drivers about their surroundings, such as speed limits, stop signs, and road conditions. Also, TSR may impact drivers’ behavior since they are aware of their surroundings due to the real-time feedback about their speed and compliance with traffic laws. Very likely in the future, the amount of self-driving cars and cars with advanced technology will rise drastically, so this technology has an essential real-world use. In summary, traffic sign recognition systems are a technology that can help with improving road safety, enhancing navigation, improving traffic flow, enhancing autonomous driving, and improving driver behavior.
In this project a number of road sign images will be processed using convolutional neural networks (CNN). Since this is a multi-class classification problem, the results of the processed images will be fed into classification machine learning models such as Random Forest, Gaussian Mixture Model, and One-vs-All multi-class Logistic Regression. The models will classify the images into four classes: traffic light, stop sign, speed limit, or crosswalk. Models will be evaluated and deployment recommendations will be provided.

